hello everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync for Monday
the 13th of July 2020
I am making brain I will be your host
we're going to go through the high
priority initiatives and the other
industries everyone's working on and
give some updates so I purchased is
number one upcoming in ship releases
took a little bit about Jess ipfs it's
gonna be released come here nice
tomorrow there were some bugs
there was a memory leak that we got a
fix in floor thanks to Jacob so I wanted
to kind of wait you fill out to the end
before releasing it so needed it first
thing tomorrow morning
hold on a second so I'm reading right
here right
how'd I did this found the video it's
okay no way is it gonna be on youtube
[Music]
and pending due to bug fixes you're
typing are there any other pending or
should policeman not coming in ship
releasing you know okay moving on
pinning services pinning services
yeah so today is the date when we are
finalizing MEP that means we say we are
dropping the final version of the spec
this week the link to the issue is in
the notes asked here is for anyone
interested in generic cleaning service
services API
to review the specs I also linked human
readable version we have open API spec
and human readable version of that the
plan is to finalize the spec within like
before the end of this week hopefully in
next week two days and then we will ask
core implementations working group I
prefers GUI working group and Vario
spinning services and Falcon partners
who are interested in implementing
something like this to give a sign-off
or to give last-minute suggestions and
changes but long story short we want to
close this freeze it this week and agree
on a version that can be implemented we
made tweak small things as we go of
course when people implement stuff and
figure out oh this is not the best way
to do this but we don't expect huge
changes and we mostly reduce the scope
to make it like a smaller surface less
problems easier for people to agree on
so take away from here is please review
this and open any issues if you find
anything concerning yeah cool moving on
heat to 55 or 94 keys yes
yeah so the subdomains support for Edie
keys is done that got merged on Friday I
think woohoo
the we need to finish up an additional
initialization work for ipfs in it with
Edie keys that is I believe blocks on me
fixing the thing in jaya slippy to pee
so that I penis does not break for Jas
when we we launched that so I'll be I'll
be getting back to that this week there
were a few bugs that popped up last week
on that needed to tend to but I'll get
back to that this week key rotation is
ready but that's blocked on getting that
done as well just so that we can have if
we need to we want to roll out a key
rotation early we could do that with
just RS a default support but right now
we would like to get in edie default
support for that before pulling that
done and then IP vestige n list also now
supports output for base 36 + CI D we
won I think stupid ha I know is there
any other things they're adding that I
didn't cover so if I'm not mistaken we
should be able to unless I'm missing
something on the JS part but we should
be able to close a cascade of PRS and
get the default in but then can correct
me if I'm missing something - J's yeah
no that's fine we can wait I think
probably the smartest way to do this
actually is to take the key rotation and
the initialization stuff and merge all
of those but have the default set to RSA
and then have another PR which is the
change all the defaults PR which just
changes all the defaults to elliptic
curves and also does things like changes
the IP NS outputs to base 36 by defaults
and whatever so it's basically just
gonna be like an output changing and
default changing PR and that way we can
merged all the stuff that does like
actual new features okay I think that's
probably the smartest way to do this so
that we're not like waiting
I'm so long on emerging things that are
actually useful so the default for the
PID encoding and the actual heat type
you want to change them in the same they
are okay
we can probably yeah pure ID I think we
stopped to figure out because there's
like look you to P things that we have
to worry about and go multi adder but I
cannot should be easy to do next up is
subdomain gateway yeah
so to fun peers got merge this week one
is my PR with PD 255 19 support in
subdomains that default all the the p2p
keys to base 56 so we don't mix
different places within like DNS
namespace and yeah this version is very
simple if you're if your CID is too long
we try to convert it to represent it in
base 46 if it does not help we return an
error that's sorry this is the long for
DNS spec you can still load it from path
based gateway however for subdomains we
just return rather an error which on to
any magical conversion yeah that's it
that with merged and the second one is
contributed I believe by Michael Moore
from if rah
it's cool PR which add supports to a
sibling header X forwarded host we
already supported x-forwarded-for both
headers are commonly used by reverse
proxies and this one enables reverse
proxy to override the hostname of the
subdomain gateway you may have different
uses for this header but the probably
the most common one is when you want to
enable subdomain support on existing
gateway but you want to redirect it to a
different host name to keep origin
isolation and like redirect to a new
subdomain on a different base domain yep
check the PR for details but that's it
there are also dogs updated yeah that's
it whoo I mean is anyone here from the
rusty mr. millinger to lead PHP run baby
hey so yeah I basically started the
second iteration last week and with that
I already checked with a plan in dot for
how we will integrate this in Lippitt be
regarding what will be the
responsibility of the user and what will
be the responsibility of itself then I
also implemented the garbage collector
for the server which basically deletes
the individuals who are already
discarded for the dirty tail then I also
got the cookies for discovering queries
so basically we when we ask for a
venerable server for peers will not
receive the ones that we already
received as we will start reference of
the once at least
since it before then I also got it
compliant with the interface peer
discovery from Liberty P and with this
we can basically plug wire in as
discovery any other discovery and
basically each time it emits an event
will record everything in the address
book and it will be basically the same
as any other your discovery service
unless the user wants to do itself the
discovery which through config you can
also do so for getting this to a next
review I basically need to get
some clean-up on this and also add more
tests and it's not totally covered yet
and after that also just integrating the
SNP records to exchange off the others
and for the next initiative the st.
Pierre records in the gossips a 1.1
design be attackers I'm still blocked on
reviews so mostly no progress since last
week and the gossips urban Cayman was
also not working on this last week so
basically also not any development
progress and that's it okay that's
handed the high priority initiatives
moving on to the other initiatives unix
of s 1.5 and go any update see a Peter
Robinson and Magoo yeah just jumped in I
think on that one they were being
probably said world ask if there's
progress and it was another boy okay
migrating to montage keys in the blog
store same same as last week killed the
end and next release pending system
revamp has worked so much the same a few
outstanding questions on the the
migration page know the repo migration
be our shared I give us no yeah go
through since last week I got a review
feedback said I'll be acting on dog PB
changes said finally got merged and
released but that was a major really so
I'll have to propagate those across all
the other libraries like UNIX of s and I
suppose there's more once that is done I
think it should be ready for another
review cycle the next one is also mine
which is improving web while ad
currently there is a jest ipfs to
request in review
we had a call last week and made a
decision about going with a custom form
data implementations that use blobs
under the hood we may reconsider the
decision later on in favor of using for
native form data because it turns out
metadata support is only implement just
like FS so maybe changing it now won't
be too bad
or there'll be no better time to do that
but we don't want to block this work on
the decision writing some more tests to
kind of catch regressions and my rice
because their long process of
normalization happening that car tests
would not catch I also spent some time
trying to see if we can use fetch blog
as Hugo's suggested last week our goal
there are some issues with fetch blob
and I start working with a flashbulb
fetch globe project to try to see if we
can address those in but I think some of
those could be just ignored for now so
as long as I have a decision we can go
one way or the other on that too so once
I hear back maybe from Alex with the
executive decision which one to use we
can move on and use the one that is
right that's that I will go to other
stuff as soon as I'm done the release
that's a design review proposals there's
anybody got anything they want to
propose for designing was an ask
I'll just ask to check cleaning services
api's if you help spare five minutes
just if anything sticks out I have some
items on questions although I'm not sure
if they should be asks for questions but
I'll bring them up unless somebody wants
to go with a asks before I I don't know
when the right time for this is but I
did come on to like address some
concerns that people had around with the
new multi-format stuff so we can talk
about that whenever is the right time to
talk about it um but I I all go
somewhere quickly and maybe we can do
that up sure so one thing that I brought
up can we consider something like RFC
process may be inspired by rust it
really works well in rust project it
gives you a clear framework of how you
get from the idea to either throw into
that idea away or actually getting it in
I've been struggling trying to figure
out how to navigate the process here but
I think another really big benefit to
RFC process that it empowers community
to also drive changes and not be
localized in the within the same
organization it would be nice to have
RFC process to kind of decide how to get
to the decision whether we should adopt
RFC pass or not but you do walk of it
maybe we can figure something out I
don't know how to have this conversation
but I'm throwing it out here and maybe
some of you can type into interesting
fact we sort of tried to introduce RFC
for the p2p project I actually wrote the
first one so that was the only one not
sure if that means no one drives so I so
I I do like rusts are a few process I
think that it's sort of impossible to go
from no process to in RFC process like
you you
to take like some steps before that like
documenting some governance and how
decisions get made would be like a
logical kind of first step I don't think
- that's documented anywhere we we did
something like that just for I feel
these specifications because all the
libraries are pretty much single
maintainer so we don't have like a we
don't need a lot of formal governance
there yet but in specs like all of us
have to weigh in and it becomes kind of
unclear like how to unblock things and
how it decision gets formalized so we
wrote up like a very kind of minimal
governance system just for specs
and that's actually gone really well and
unblocked a lot of things and it's not
nearly as formal or as much process in
RC process but it has allowed us to like
close things quicker and it has allowed
us to narrow in on who the
decision-makers are we're making a
decision and how objections are raised
so you could check out and that's only
in that build these specs right now that
we haven't done that in multi formats we
probably need to move it over to multi
formats as well know that we're doing
yeah so I I didn't meant to like just go
with a raster model I think it's will be
developed over time but starting some
process would be helpful oftentimes I
find myself in the position where I
start the discussion and some people
respond and then you don't know what
that means does it means it's a bad idea
just means like we we don't have time to
work on it or if we don't and who can
like it becomes unclear but how to I
upon things so having a process that is
describes how you can act on things
would be really helpful icing and not
just internally also externally for
people to know how they can navigate
this based I would say that like at this
stage the most important thing is that
there's something that makes people
formalize their objections so you can
comment and have an opinion but like a
formal objection is something that you
say like much clearer and when you're
asking like hey are there any more
objections at this point like objections
need to be very clearly stated like no I
don't think that that should go in for
this reason so that people have
something actionable they can do to
potentially change your mind and and it
just Alinea it's between like I I have a
passing concern that I don't really care
about from actually you should not
because it's really hard to
differentiate when you're not the person
who makes the comment exactly so how do
we take this from just bringing up here
to actually something we can take that
offline but I would like this to
actually happen somehow and I'm happy to
do the works that is necessary to get
there
um I picked
probably to just go into the we're
talking about doing this for the ipfs
org at it is the main issue in ipfs ipfs
before and then kick that discussion off
there again okay I'll do that
thank you and I had other items that
it's kind of big larger discussion so
the question is should we consider a
network IP LD is another breakout
project from ipfs and the reason I'm
bringing it up
I've been talking to a lot of our
permanent users in terms of trying to
figure out what the IP and browser
should be as a minimal API and it's
clear that everyone is essentially using
that sort of IPL devious persistence
with a few bits and pieces of exception
here and there
it also become apparent after that that
actually the IP ever slides at Excel put
together is kind of that so and these
kind of ideas that had been brewing in
my head it clear that at some point
likely to be was identified as a
separate thing that is useful on its own
and then same thing happened with a IP
LD itself but it's just data layer is
there I think maybe it's a time to
consider what another breakout could be
is that is IPL Davis persistence and
ipfs network baking it and then ideas
could be sink on top and people who
don't care about the file system piece
itself they can happily use a smaller
piece which turns out studies what
textile three books and like I remember
right now who else but many people use I
wrote a more detailed write-up in ipfs
notes as the trooper deitrick suggestion
at the place to do maybe we can continue
discussion with my brief two seconds on
that is that it's not but whatever maybe
it's just like a naming thing but like
I'm here fuss is is basically that it's
just that the ipfs does and jazz type of
us do way more things then are strictly
required by ipfs and so we should have
libraries and we should have
applications and the applications should
not be a name the same thing is the
library make things less confusing
that's the feedback I've been also
getting a lot where it's like IPS is an
application and not a library and people
one library so I think that there's two
ways to interpret this right now and one
of them is probably really terrifying
after the entire team was gotten hats
like this the shoes like this could
translate into like extra stuff because
if you're trying like you're basically
saying like okay there's ipfs as a
network and then there's IP address as a
product sort of and those are like
different things and it looks like
pursuing them separately would be more
work rather than less but there's
probably a way to approach this where
you're actually kind of be scoping a
little bit and pulling back and saying
like this is what ipfs it is it is this
sort of network piece potentially and
then we're doing a lot of experiments on
top of that which is you know what you
get when you install go ipfs and JSI DFS
you get all of this extra stuff that
we've been working on that we're really
interested but that differentiation is
it's yeah really hard and very confusing
I think it also speaks to things like
priorities like I think if you just sort
of like casually look at our repos
you'll you will discover it that like
there are many issues with the fuse
implementation not nobody is fixing and
we'd like to fix them but they're not
really deemed like core to what is very
important for the project as a whole to
be working on right now right and that's
because effectively what we are working
in right now is ipfs the protocol and
library and not so much like I think
that's the application is just helping
you use it
right so like it's a disculpa ng effort
in the sense that if you can separate
out the library components and those are
the things that you care about and
maintain and then the application has
the minute has full support for that
minimal subset and then some extra stuff
you can like see where the lines you
know where the priorities of the lines
fall so on my end one thing that has
been sort of why I bring this up as we
try to embark into sharing node sync
across browser tabs right now it is
actually very helpful to have something
that is minimal and that is not
full-blown ipfs so idea is to be driven
by the users demand sorta and clearly it
is been identified that this is more or
less what it is given also a new I kill
this talk that is coming in I think it
becomes more and more clear that there's
just I what people are using essentially
I kill D and then they just want to be
stored and to be able to retrieve which
is much lesser school and we can also
eat rate on that without having to break
anything either for application users or
current GSI PFS users and also can just
resync what would make sense for that
specific use case not all the other use
cases I mean I wouldn't underestimate
how many people are not thinking of it
and using it only in that scope I mean
like that that might sound attractive to
me being that like I run I killed B and
that's like a very ideal date centric
way of looking at it but I think that
actually like a lot of people using IP
FS right now think of it as like more of
an API rather than a protocol and
there's a lot of API surfaced therefore
the things that they do and files is
like a very important part of that and
then the network is like probably the
most important part of that and by the
network I also mean the persistence
layer yes and so like those things are
like super super important to them and
it's it's a little bit more difficult
than I think that we're giving it credit
for to like trim down the API for
instance
because that would be like a necessary
part of of this change I think yeah well
I mean just it's also keep track of like
time here we're couple minutes over and
well I think this is a worthwhile
conversation I think realistically we're
not going to be able to touch this until
q4 so I every kind of punt that but at
least we can we can have the ongoing
conversation I think in the notes but
realistically like nothing's gonna
happen for at least until q4 yeah take
your points out we are over time this
has been the so I mean if you want to
stay on and talk to Michael about multi
formats and please do otherwise if you
have to drop off them please rip off
this has been the IBA best core weak you
think before the 13th of July 2020 you
can record the multi-format sparked if
you want to we don't have to drop the
recording people have to drop up it's up
to you okay it's fine okay yeah yeah so
I think people have been seeing this and
maybe overreacting a little bit in that
you're nobody's gonna take this
dependent like JSI PFS is not going to
migrate to this stack anytime soon it's
our view and I Kildee that like when we
read a brand new library the first
consumer of that should not be the user
our user with the most people that
that's kind of see instead like we
adopted we use it we sort of try to
understand it and and gauge its maturity
and how much we think it's going to have
to change over time because we don't
want you to take a library and then just
have like three more breaking changes at
you and and you know and now we also
have other consumers of some of our
stack that have less users than you that
are like a little bit easier actually to
iterate like Jess I think that's like
for instance like a good example is
actually the block API where we we wrote
I wrote that like a year ago and we've
been you know putting a lot of our stuff
on it ever since but you know every
three months we've sort of figured out
like there's another breaking change
that's gonna have to happen to make
things actually work the way that they
need to and so it's never you know we
because we keep
seeing these we're not going to have you
take it until we're done with these
breaking changes you take one breaking
change rather than seven the dance
multi-format stuff is similar and in
some ways kind of bigger in that it's
not only JavaScript it's actually multi
formats as a standard and a
specification is not changing but the
way that we've interpreted that into
language librarians across the board has
been like we have we have like taken the
wrong approach to multi floor mats and
now the multi floor mats table has grown
and the number of hashing functions and
codecs has grown it's very very obvious
how that like some of this stuff is so
the way that the libraries are currently
implemented is that when you get a multi
formats implementation you get a set of
hashing functions you get a set of bass
encoders you get a set of codecs and
these are sort of like part of the
import chain wherever you kind of decide
to pull in multi formats and you get the
entire table these are much more obvious
in JavaScript as a problem in other
languages because you're confronted with
how much code that you ship a lot more
obviously when you ship the bundle but
in JavaScript even the size of the table
is a problem like it's noticeable in the
bundle size that there's this big multi
formats table in there like you know we
look at the charts of like where the
block API is is spending a lot of its
its its budget on on this and like the
tables not insignificant and it's only
growing and we even started to get
pushback on adding things to the multi
floor mats table because the table was
so big and people are loading into the
code so this is this was the wrong way
to do things right so the way that we're
looking at multi formats going forward
in all languages is that multi floor
mats is like an interface that you load
up with the implementations the table
information that you care about and the
representations that you get from multi
formats are somewhat agnostic of needing
to have that table information so you
can parse a multi hash and know what
that integer is even if you don't have
the hashing function and you would know
this bubbles up like really as far as a
CID right so CID has properties for the
string codec
that is a problem like we actually have
to break that because we have to be able
to represent see IDs to things that we
don't have a codex or and you can't
represent the string unless you have the
table information so what we've been
doing is like figuring out the interface
that looks the nicest that we think is
the right way to kind of load this
information up and then sort of bubbling
it up the stack and updating the block
interface now and so for most consumers
this won't look that different like
right now you serve like the old block
interface for ideally you would like
import the block and the block would
come with a bunch of codecs and now if
you import block / defaults you'll get
the block with a bunch of codecs a bunch
of hashing functions ipfs will probably
just have its own block somewhere and
you'll import that block and it'll have
all the codecs and hashing functions and
base encoders did IPF a secure spot so
at that level it's not really going to
change but the fact that you have to
kind of configure this and pass that
block interface through all of your
layers
you can't just import it necessarily
because you may need to configure it or
you may need to allow the user to
configure it with more codecs or more
hashing functions or something that's
gonna be like a pretty substantial kind
of code change like architectural II
it's going to change a lot of code paths
since we know that this is such a huge
break we're taking all of the other
breaking changes that we've been putting
off for a long time so there's other
stuff in this refactor that is not
strictly this multi formats refactor
we're getting rid of buffer and doing
everything as you into eight array
that's a really big change we you know
that the CIB change is also really big
because it's without you type we were
moving the ESM because we don't want to
also migrate to ESM in six months to a
year this is just like stuff that it's
easier to take now and deal with it than
it is to suffer more braking changes in
the future I think they're like some of
the some of the things that have bubbled
up like the ESM stuff is just not where
you're going to spend your time if
you're upgrading the value type changes
are the most significant and most
painful thing to migrate because you've
got buffer dot is buffer code all over
the place
you've got cid that is
see I decode all over the place and
we've had to think really hard about
what the failure cases should look like
so that it's really easy to see where
you need to update rather than having
bugs appear transparently and you just
do the wrong handling but not see an
exception so there's a million notes on
that and different threads that we can
go over once it's time to upgrade but
yeah if you like to get on your radar
that like there is a pretty big breaking
change coming but it's not coming
through us ipfs anytime soon but you
know it's it's always been up to you
when you want to upgrade but we're not
even recommending that you upgrade
within the next like three or four
months like we're it's not ready yet and
we actually have other priorities this
quarter so we're not gonna be able to
finish it right now so Michael I have a
question so once in three months or so
when you think that it's ready and we
start upgrading and notice some other
issues that would they might require
breaking changes what would the process
be like then did you go back into
incorporating those ideas or yeah so
hopefully hopefully most of that has
worked out as we update our stack to it
and as people like GSI BFS light to it
like hopefully we shake out most of
those issues in that process if there's
any remaining though like we're still
open to taking a breaking change you
know in the process of you upgrading if
it makes that upgrade you know easier
and more reasonable and it's a change
that we need to take through that at
more fundamental level so yeah maybe let
me rephrase it is differently so one of
the things that I've been trying to are
wanting to do is for the shared ipfs
known in browser to try to take the new
IP all this stuff and we only have a
block API and expose those and kind of
have that as a replacement for the tag
API so we can actually learn about those
things that may be incompatible or
problematic earlier on given that teams
that we were working on are much smaller
and greater number of ikf as users do
you think it's a good idea to start
doing it now or do you think it's
something we should wait till
I think it really depends how depends on
how isolated that code is so if that
code is really isolated and it's not
super integrated and the rest of the
stack it may be a good time to take it
earlier because it would one give you
experience with it and you would be able
to flush out any issues early on and to
for something like this worker interface
some of these breaking changes are
probably going to make your life a bit
easier right like having you into a de
Rais everywhere would probably make it
life easier than having to deal with the
buffer polyfill so it may be worth it I
mean I'm not I'm not in your code so I
can't like make the recommendation for
you but it may be something to think
about um another thing I should mention
as well is that like our view is that
there is like an old world in a new
world and we want to like not have a lot
of steps in between but what I mean by
that is like we don't want you to take
sort of a lot of piecemeal upgrades into
the same codebase because it just makes
the migration all that much more
difficult so like we know that we are
probably not going to maintain two
versions of every comic we are probably
going to just maintain the codecs for
this new stack so I actually wrote a
legacy interface so that you can take a
new style codec and it will completely
convert that into the interface you
currently so it literally converts back
to buffer it converts to the old CID
interface like everything should look
the same and it should have the same
structure to it that you would plug into
I think it's
gsib format or something like that but I
can remember the name of it but yeah
like that is the way that you should use
the new stuff in the old space until
you're ready to just kind of like fully
upgrade but yeah if you have to totally
isolated I mean this all sounds great
wide really like to see from the OPR
d-team is some peers that implement some
of the stuff in IP offense and do some
of these migrations like so for example
the p2p have delivered a whole bunch of
breaking changes but they've always
submitted PRS that actually then upgrade
ipfs to use the new versions of the p2p
and whatever the new interfaces
to see that from the OPD team as well
because what I'm hearing is quite a lot
of when you upgrade and when you take
this but like this as you got ready to
point out that stuff is very deeply
ingrained in in like your family and
it's gonna be yeah I mean if if the
changes were not to value types I think
that we can do that pretty easily but
changing a value type it is is just
substantial like it's not it's not a one
it's not a small PR and it's also like
something that impacts the ecosystem on
top of Jays idea that's right like this
isn't this isn't changing if I confess
it's a change to like all the libraries
just using because they're not getting a
buffers anymore like they're not gonna
get the old CID in a fix anymore
so like that's just it's not something
that you can kind of take piecemeal I
think the closest thing that we could do
is and there's an example of this is the
CLI we sent a PR for import and export
of car files and that uses our new
interface and it's isolated to only the
CLI so it doesn't impact like the whole
rest of the stack and doesn't have to
like and and it can be kind of
disentangled and if you notice like in
that code path it actually is pulling in
the new book the old version of the new
block interface and now we'll get
upgraded actually to like the very very
new stuff and in your future but like
that's the kind of thing that we we're
really looking for opportunities to send
you to get feedback on so yeah it would
be great like if you if you could look
at that PR and also for other reasons I
think that we do need to to close that
out and figure out what we're gonna do
for the import and export but yeah yeah
like that that's really as far as we can
go just because the value type change is
such a big big deal yeah it's not really
something that we can we can do on a
small basis I wish that there was like a
better example but just like um I think
one thing that might really help though
and it'll be a little different for you
but at some point GSI PFS light will
take this API will work
we closely with them on that and pulling
you all into that PR just to look at the
code and see some of the differences I
think will be really educational to
think about how they're gonna change
this would have to be for guess ipfs for
instance and like I yeah I don't I don't
know I don't want to get back to the
conversations were having before but it
may it may even be worth considering
like a future version of Jas ipfs being
on line of code on top okay SIDS like
and if that was an easier way to make
the upgrade that that might also be a
road that you might want to consider but
yeah I mean like I said like this isn't
my project like I can't I can't make a
lot of these decisions for you but yeah
I mean we'll do what we can
we'll keep doing stuff like the car
import/export let me see so I you made
like a passing reference to like this
will also occur and go but then like
talk to almost it's the sleeve up the J
side of things like in yeah so there is
no timeline for that and go like we like
this is like a thing that we know needs
to happen someday but there's like
there's no prioritization to it it's not
what we're so constrained for the
resources and as you can imagine they're
so like allocated to file claim that
there's just like there's no nothing
close to a date on this rust is is doing
this right now though so there is you
know some work happening a trust and
it's very similar I mean obviously
different because it's rust unless
there's always a bit different in
JavaScript but the same sort of approach
to shipping with no table information
and no codecs instead of loading it up
like I have a question based on your
comments that you made earlier which was
you only have an adapter that can take
the new codec implementation and turn it
adapted to the current codec
implementation is there a reason why
would not existing codec library just
use an adapter and like proxy choose a
new implementation so you don't have two
different versions coding so because
that's been essentially mentioned you in
a dress as ice thing and doing a lot of
work trying to get you in a day race
across all these codecs but the old ones
so it would
I don't have to doing that and didn't
mainly because the old codec interface
has so much extra kind of boilerplate
and endpoints that there's not like a
discrete single place where you can do
the translation yes did you put in
multiple places and so we're just like
you know what it's probably easier for
us to just port the old codex over to
the new style and then export this
legacy interface like it's actually it's
actually easier for us to just yeah to
just migrate all of the old codex than
it is to try to come up with the
translation layer in that direction okay
I got it I said the transmission was
working either way around but no no no
no we just take the new style and make
it in the old style and that's a lot
easier because in the new style you know
it's one function to encode and one
function to decode like that's really
really easy so another things that I
kind of relate to all of those things
that I'm or not all of them but we
talked about blocks every at this or not
look IP O'Leary's networking or this
separate thing and I also mentioned that
ipfs light is actually bad and you're
talking about maybe talking working with
this textile to get a new IP all these
stuff and maybe I guess could be on her
website so all of these things kinda
interconnect so one things that I wanted
wanna do and figure out how is and I
took to Carson about it too so Doug API
essentially is a block API with some the
encoding decoding happening under the
hood and the block KK is kind of nice
because it's much more smaller API in a
sense it's there's not much going on so
you is there any way we could have that
so that block API can be agnostic of the
block implementation new versus old one
so people who want to try the new IP all
this stuff can do so by using mu I kill
the block and the I cap has block API
and if they don't want to do that then
they can continue using dag API at least
that would be really interesting for me
to do the shared node thing because that
would address the use case that Excel
has with their ipfs lights they can use
just wish to
new API and do zack and three books
expressed some interest to and people
who do not want to do that they can
continue using the existing tag api no
III honestly would recommend that you
don't try to put the interfaces in
parallel and instead just write like a
very tiny translation layer when you
know it needs to exist like it it's just
not that much code to take the current
block API in ftfs and like translated
into the blocks back in like the new
block api back and forth like if what
you want is the new block api then you
can just like have IPSS doing the old
thing and write maybe five or six lines
of code that will translate them back
and forth to the new block like taking
like a bunch of effectively redundant
code into core IP FS to do that doesn't
doesn't make a ton of sense to me just
because it's not that hard to migrate
between these two things the only thing
you lose is like an efficiency game
because the new block api has so much
like caching than it does internally
really I think you might have
misinterpreted my goal my voice to have
a low KPI is it just more like a binary
API choose a block store and IPL d blog
gives you a way to create those binaries
and because those miners and duggie api
sorta while people wanted migrated sir
but hopefully they will migrate and it
will be unnecessary in the future
because block a like I kill D block and
block a pair will kind of do all of the
things already
does that make more sense kind of I mean
like isn't that really easier like you
know it's would no more than me but like
can't I think it's called my like the
block service interface right like can't
you just instantiate that and get it on
the network and everything and then if
you have that block service interface
insane because place it yeah it's right
at that point it's pretty trivial to
just like take the data that comes out
of it and turn it into the new block API
like that's really really easy I mean
you'll have the buffer polyfill in there
but whatever that's what I meant they I
peel the reason networking piece I'm
kind of trying to detangle that maybe
this is too much for this call and we
can forget it we're way over and I think
we're getting too into weeds here yeah
okay all right yeah hopefully I cleared
that up
yeah we're not trying to make like a ton
of extra work for you we're actually
trying to do the opposite and trying to
limit the number of grades that you all
have to take and and just like make sure
that we get things right so that when
you upgrade you're not constantly sort
of driving through a bunch of other
issues that we hadn't uncovered yet I
just want to like echo Alex said which
is like you know sort of PRS welcome
like you know ipfs has like we have car
stuff we have like half a graph sync we
have go IPL D format like this yeah yeah
I mean like yeah so so one is that like
the new interfaces for go are coming
along in there and there and they're
pretty far along now I mean like they're
used in grabs tank for instance I think
that like again like we we have a much
we have a resourcing issue across the
board for things that aren't coined and
that Menace particularly deeply felt on
the go resource inside so it's just it's
it's really hard to give you any kind of
a date when that would happened though
the only thing that I can promise
honestly is that like you will have much
better documentation on how to use the
new go interfaces by the end of this
quarter like that I can definitely
guarantee I can guarantee that drafts
Inc in any other libraries that use glad
filthy prime that are in file coin will
continue to be upgraded to the latest
stuff definitely guarantee that because
it's like in the thylakoid pipeline but
like there's just not there's not a lot
like for the next quarter at least but
we didn't we can really say definitively
does that include like documentation on
the the best way to create a dag and get
it into like a fast right now
which I assume is something like use one
of our structures to create a car file
and then import it but like the
documentation on how to do that is also
not really there yeah kak fest users
are running into and stuff like that
okay um yeah if you could just give
just a few more details on the use case
there I can work it into the list of
things that we're writing up and make
sure that that that happens because
we're writing something sort of like
that like we're running like a sort of
thinking and data structures tutorial
and then like how to build this data
structures without field eat without
really talking about how they get
slammed into storage because that varies
so much by language but then at some
point we're gonna need to let go into
each language and say like this is the
best way to do that for these different
interfaces and yeah I think that a lot
of the time actually no I I can
guarantee you that for every language
we'll just have like okay here's how to
get that into a car file like whatever
you just did he'll come to get a new car
file and then here's how our files go
into IP address and file coin-like will
definitely have that documentation but
there may be a more efficient way if
you're in go and you gain like important
drive GFS to like not actually go into a
car file and just go directly into ipfs
that would be like an interesting thing
to look at yes I meant like thinking
things like in particularly a show
gratitude over the weekend was a hawk fi
Ceaser who's trying to import like a 9
megabyte JSON file right which is fine
which is fine but like ok but now it's
off won't send it because it's more than
a Meg yeah think about it the right way
so we need some like how do I think
about I feel D correctly yep yeah so
we're starting with like here's what an
in-memory map looks like in your
language that's a data structure here's
like what it looks like when we turn
that into something that's an IPL d
where we get this hash board and you can
go get it and then from there like that
becomes a link and this is how you
create a data structure it links to
different parts of the thing and that's
how you build bigger structures they go
over that limit like that that is
definitely something we're working on
that we'll have well we should have
language examples in JavaScript go and
rust actually for all of that cool
that's really great to hear actually
sounds like we're working on the right
page ok cool
this is great everybody I think I missed
the meeting in between but it's all good
this is worth it thank you all and
toxics but like I thank you everyone see
you on the Internet